OBSDOCS-169 - Loki Tolerations (#63569)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/logging-loki-pod-placement.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:

> // cluster-logging-loki.adoc

Reviewer: Unless this is a feature-specific practice, we usually include the full path to the assembly to make it easier.
 ```suggestion
// logging/log_storage/cluster-logging-loki.adoc
```

// * list of assemblies where this module is included

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="logging-loki-pod-placement_{context}"]
= Loki pod placement

> You can control which nodes the Loki pods run on and prevent other workloads from using those nodes by using tolerations or node selections on the pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can control which nodes the Loki pods run on and prevent other workloads from using those nodes by using tolerations or node selectors on the pods.
```

You apply tolerations to the log store pods through the LokiStack custom resource (CR) and apply taints to a node through the node specification. A taint on a node is a `key:value` pair that instructs the node to repel all pods that do not tolerate the taint. Using a specific `key:value` pair that is not on other pods ensures only the log store pods can run on that node.

> .Example LokiStack with node selections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example LokiStack CR with node selectors
```

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: loki.grafana.com/v1
kind: LokiStack
metadata:
  name: logging-loki
  namespace: openshift-logging
spec:
...
  template:
    compactor: # <1>
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: "" # <2>
    distributor:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
    gateway:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
    indexGateway:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
    ingester:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
    querier:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
    queryFrontend:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
    ruler:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""

> ...

Reviewer: Per the [doc guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#signs-and-symbols-in-code-blocks).
```suggestion
# ...
```

----

> <1> Defines the component pod type a node selection applies to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Defines the component pod type that the node selection applies to.
```

> <2> Pods will be moved to nodes containing the label defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Pods are be moved to nodes containing the label defined.
```

> In the example configuration above all Loki pods will be moved to nodes containing the label `node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example configuration above all Loki pods are moved to nodes containing the `node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""` label.
```

> .Example LokiStack with node selection and tolerations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example LokiStack CR with node selection and tolerations
```

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: loki.grafana.com/v1
kind: LokiStack
metadata:
  name: logging-loki
  namespace: openshift-logging
spec:

> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# ...
```

      - effect: NoExecute
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
    ingester:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
      tolerations:
      - effect: NoSchedule
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
      - effect: NoExecute
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
    querier:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
      tolerations:
      - effect: NoSchedule
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
      - effect: NoExecute
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
    queryFrontend:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
      tolerations:
      - effect: NoSchedule
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
      - effect: NoExecute
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
    ruler:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
      tolerations:
      - effect: NoSchedule
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
      - effect: NoExecute
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra

>         value: reserved

Reviewer 2: miss gataway
```
    gateway:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
      tolerations:
      - effect: NoSchedule
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
      - effect: NoExecute
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved

```

Author: fixed, but what's the difference between the `indexGateway` and `gateway` here?

> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# ...
```

----

> To help you configure the `nodeSelector` and `tolerations` fields of the LokiStack Custom Resource (CR), you can use the [command]`oc explain` command to view the description and fields for a particular resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help you configure the `nodeSelector` and `tolerations` fields of the LokiStack (CR), you can use the [command]`oc explain` command to view the description and fields for a particular resource:
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// logging/log_storage/cluster-logging-loki.adoc

> :_content-type: CONCEPT

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
```

[id="logging-loki-pod-placement_{context}"]
= Loki pod placement

> You can control which nodes the Loki pods run on and prevent other workloads from using those nodes by using tolerations or node selectors on the pods.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can control which nodes the Loki pods run on, and prevent other workloads from using those nodes, by using tolerations or node selectors on the pods.
```
Up to you!

> You apply tolerations to the log store pods through the LokiStack custom resource (CR) and apply taints to a node through the node specification. A taint on a node is a `key:value` pair that instructs the node to repel all pods that do not tolerate the taint. Using a specific `key:value` pair that is not on other pods ensures only the log store pods can run on that node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can apply tolerations to the log store pods with the LokiStack custom resource (CR) and apply taints to a node with the node specification. A taint on a node is a `key:value` pair that instructs the node to repel all pods that do not allow the taint. Using a specific `key:value` pair that is not on other pods ensures that only the log store pods can run on that node.
```

.Example LokiStack with node selectors
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: loki.grafana.com/v1
kind: LokiStack
metadata:
  name: logging-loki
  namespace: openshift-logging
spec:
# ...
  template:
    compactor: # <1>
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: "" # <2>
    distributor:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
    gateway:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
    indexGateway:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
    ingester:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
    querier:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
    queryFrontend:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
    ruler:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
# ...
----

> <1> Defines the component pod type that the node selector applies to.

Reviewer 3: I think this is still technically correct 
```suggestion
<1> Specifies the component pod type that applies to the node selector.
```

> <2> Pods are be moved to nodes containing the label defined.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<2> Specifies the pods that are moved to nodes containing the defined label. 
```

> In the example configuration above all Loki pods are moved to nodes containing the `node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""` label.

Reviewer 3: [IBMS suggests](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#a) to avoid directional prepositions
```suggestion
In the previous example configuration, all Loki pods are moved to nodes containing the `node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""` label.
```

> In the previous example configuration, all Loki pods are moved to nodes containing the `node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""` label.

Reviewer 4: I don't have a preference for this really, but would this maybe be better suited above the example, and then switching it to:

Just a thought

```suggestion
In the following example configuration, all Loki pods are moved to nodes containing the `node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""` label.
```

        value: reserved
    querier:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
      tolerations:
      - effect: NoSchedule
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
      - effect: NoExecute
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
    queryFrontend:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
      tolerations:
      - effect: NoSchedule
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
      - effect: NoExecute
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
    ruler:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
      tolerations:
      - effect: NoSchedule
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
      - effect: NoExecute
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
    gateway:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""
      tolerations:
      - effect: NoSchedule
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
      - effect: NoExecute
        key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
        value: reserved
# ...
----

> To help you configure the `nodeSelector` and `tolerations` fields of the LokiStack (CR), you can use the [command]`oc explain` command to view the description and fields for a particular resource:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To configure the `nodeSelector` and `tolerations` fields of the LokiStack (CR), you can use the [command]`oc explain` command to view the description and fields for a particular resource:
```

> To configure the `nodeSelector` and `tolerations` fields of the LokiStack (CR), you can use the [command]`oc explain` command to view the description and fields for a particular resource:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To configure the `nodeSelector` and `tolerations` fields of the LokiStack CR, you can use the `oc explain` command to view the description and fields for a particular resource:
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc explain lokistack.spec.template
----

.Example output
[source,text]
----
KIND:     LokiStack
VERSION:  loki.grafana.com/v1

RESOURCE: template <Object>

DESCRIPTION:
     Template defines the resource/limits/tolerations/nodeselectors per
     component

FIELDS:
   compactor	<Object>
     Compactor defines the compaction component spec.

   distributor	<Object>
     Distributor defines the distributor component spec.
...
----

> For more detailed information, you can add a specific field:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For more detailed information, you can add a specific field, for example:
```
